# thesis_recommender_system
Collaborative filtering based recommender system for an error/risk report scenario.

Collaborative filtering is a common recommender system technique, which entails basing recommendations to a user based on choices made by previous users with similar preferences. In the typical e-commerce or media streaming scenario, this can be rather straight forwardly by encoding purchace or streaming history as a vector whose *n:th* element gives the number of purchaces/streams of item *n*. 

This notebook implements a variation of collaborative filtering adapted to deal with a different scenario. In a product that scans for errors/risks and returns reports detailing any found errors/risks, historic user priorities regarding mitigation might be possible to infer by comparing changes in consecutive reports. Recommendations can then be produced for a novel report by finding previous similar reports delivered to other users and calculating the average change of these "nearest neighbors". Let user *u* recieve a novel report, whose vector representation is *r_u* (where the *m:th* element corresponds to the number of times error *m* was found). The algorithm then finds the nearest neighbors *{r_n}* to *r_u*. For each neighbor, the change between the neighbor report and the next report in that neighbors trajectory is calculated, *{s_n = r_n_1 - r_n}*. A weighted average of these changes is then calculated and used as a basis for a recommendation.

The notebook contains the implemented algorithm as well as functions designed to generate test data to evaluate the algorithm. These test data functions emulates a scenario where the risks/errors are given a designation of their expected negative impach (low, medium, high). It can also emulate a scanner that misses risks/error with some probability. This can be used for extensive parameter study of the algorithm, however in this notebook the algorithm is demonstrated only on 2D test data.
